Azure Service Principal documentation (#171)
seqeralabs/docs: platform_versioned_docs/version-24.1/compute-envs/azure-batch.mdx

Ensure you have sufficient permissions to create resource groups, an Azure Storage account, and a Batch account.
:::

> ## Azure concepts

Reviewer: My 10 cents here is that the boxes are quite intrusive and distracting. When I first open this page all I see are these boxes. I would have this text shown under headings rather than as boxes.

<details>
  <summary>**Regions**</summary>

>   Azure regions are distinct geographic areas that contain multiple data centers strategically located around the world to provide high availability, fault tolerance, and low latency for cloud services. Each region offers a wide range of Azure services — choose a specific region to optimize performance, ensure data residency compliance, and meet regulatory requirements. Azure regions also enable redundancy and disaster recovery options by allowing resources to be replicated across different regions, enhancing the resilience of applications and data.

Reviewer: I found this very wordy - suggestion to split the first sentence and stay with a single tense.
```suggestion
  Azure regions are specific geographic locations around the world where Microsoft has established data centers to host its cloud services. Each Azure region is a collection of data centers that provide users with high availability, fault tolerance, and low latency for cloud services. Each region offers a wide range of Azure services that can be chosen to optimize performance, ensure data residency compliance, and meet regulatory requirements. Azure regions also enable redundancy and disaster recovery options by allowing resources to be replicated across different regions, enhancing the resilience of applications and data.
```

</details>  
<details>
  <summary>**Resource groups**</summary>

  An Azure resource group is a logical container that holds related Azure resources such as virtual machines, storage accounts, databases, and more. A resource group serves as a management boundary to organize, deploy, monitor, and manage the resources within it as a single entity. Resources in a resource group share the same lifecycle, meaning they can be deployed, updated, and deleted together. This also enables easier access control, monitoring, and cost management, making resource groups a foundational element in organizing and managing cloud infrastructure in Azure.

</details>
<details>
  <summary>**Accounts**</summary>

>   Seqera Platform relies on an existing Azure Storage and Azure Batch account. You need at least one valid Azure Storage and Azure Batch account in your Azure subscription.

Reviewer: Tense here is different
```suggestion
  Seqera Platform relies on an existing Azure Storage and Azure Batch account. At least one valid Azure Storage and Azure Batch account is required per Azure subscription.
```

>   Azure uses accounts for each service. For example, an [Azure Storage account][az-learn-storage] will house a collection of blob containers, file shares, queues, and tables. While you can have multiple Azure Storage and Azure Batch accounts in an Azure subscription, a Platform compute environment can only use one of each (one Storage and one Batch account). You can set up multiple Platform compute environments to use different credentials, Storage accounts, and Batch accounts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Azure uses accounts for each service. For example, an [Azure Storage account][az-learn-storage] will house a collection of blob containers, file shares, queues, and tables. An Azure subscription can have multiple Azure Storage and Azure Batch accounts. However, a Platform compute environment can only use one of each (one Storage and one Batch account). Multiple Platform compute environments can be set to use different credentials, Storage accounts, and Batch accounts.
```

  <summary>**Service principals**</summary>

  An Azure service principal is an identity created for use with applications, hosted services, or automated tools to access Azure resources. A service principal is effectively a user identity with a set of permissions assigned to it. Platform can use an Azure service principal to authenticate and authorize access to Azure Batch for job execution and Azure Storage for data management. By assigning the necessary roles to the service principal, Platform can securely interact with these Azure services. This ensures that only authorized operations are performed during pipeline execution.

</details>  

## Create Azure resources

### Resource group

Create a resource group to link your Azure Batch and Azure Storage account:

:::note
A resource group can be created while creating an Azure Storage Account or Azure Batch account.
:::

1. Log in to your Azure account, go to the [Create Resource group][az-create-rg] page, and select **Create new resource group**.
1. Enter a name for the resource group, such as _towerrg_.
1. Choose the preferred region.
1. Select **Review and Create** to proceed.
1. Select **Create**.

### Storage account

> After creating a resource group, set up an [Azure storage account][az-learn-storage]:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After creating a resource group, set up an [Azure Storage account][az-learn-storage]:
```

1. Log in to your Azure account, go to the [Create storage account][az-create-storage] page, and select **Create a storage account**.
    :::note
    If you haven't created a resource group, you can do so now.
    :::
1. Enter a name for the storage account, such as _towerrgstorage_.
1. Choose the preferred region. This must be the same region as the Batch account.
1. The platform supports any performance or redundancy settings — select the most appropriate settings for your use case.
1. Select **Next: Advanced**.
1. Enable _storage account key access_.
1. Select **Next: Networking**.
   - Enable public access from all networks. You can enable public access from selected virtual networks and IP addresses, but you will be unable to use Forge to create compute resources. Disabling public access is not supported.
1. Select **Data protection**.
    - Configure appropriate settings. All settings are supported by the platform.
1. Select **Encryption**.
    - Only Microsoft-managed keys (MMK) are supported.
1. In **tags**, add any required tags for the storage account.
1. Select **Review and Create**.
1. Select **Create** to create the Azure Storage account.

> 1. You will need at least one blob storage container to act as a working directory for Nextflow.

Reviewer: Does this need it's own point or could it be a comment on the point above?

```suggestion
    - You will need at least one blob storage container to act as a working directory for Nextflow.
```

1. Go to your new storage account and select **+ Container** to create a new Blob storage container. A new container dialogue will open. Enter a suitable name, e.g., _towerrgstorage-container_.
1. Go to the **Access Keys** section of your new storage account (_towerrgstorage_ in this example).
1. Store the access keys for your Azure Storage account, to be used when you create a Seqera compute environment.

:::caution
Blob container storage credentials are associated with the Batch pool configuration. Avoid changing these credentials in your Seqera instance after you have created the compute environment.
:::

### Batch account

After you have created a resource group and storage account, create a [Batch account][az-learn-batch]:

1. Log in to your Azure account and select **Create a batch account** on [this page][az-create-batch].
1. Select the existing resource group or create a new one.
1. Enter a name for the Batch account, such as _towerrgbatch_.
1. Choose the preferred region. This must be the same region as the Storage account.
1. Select **Advanced**.
1. For **Pool allocation mode**, select Batch service.
1. For **Authentication mode**, select _Shared Key_.

> 1. Select **Networking**. Ensure networking access is sufficient for Platform and any additional required resources.

Reviewer: Below you have a guide that has sub points for fields to fill out on a page, would this make sense here also?

For example:

```
In your Platform workspace **Credentials** tab, select the **Add credentials** button and complete the following fields:
```

Reviewer 2: @christopher-hakkaart we could do with some reformatting of most of the instructions lists on this page. In the interests of getting this update out in time for release, I'm going to shelf this suggestion for now, in favor of revisiting when the Compute envs section is tackled as a while during the consistency epic we're tackling soon.

    :::note
    To use separate pools for head and compute nodes, see [this FAQ entry](../faqs.mdx#azure).
    :::
    - **Batch accounts per region per subscription**: Set this to the number of Azure Batch accounts per region per subscription. Only one is required.
    - **Spot/low-priority vCPUs**: Platform does not support spot or low-priority machines when using Forge, so when using Forge this number can be zero. When manually setting up a pool, select an appropriate number of concurrent vCPUs here.
    - **Total Dedicated vCPUs per VM series**: See the Azure documentation for [virtual machine sizes][az-vm-sizes] to help determine the machine size you need. We recommend the latest version of the ED series available in your region as a cost-effective and appropriately-sized machine for running Nextflow. However, you will need to select alternative machine series that have additional requirements, such as those with additional GPUs or faster storage. Increase the quota by the number of required concurrent CPUs. In Azure, machines are charged per cpu minute so there is no additional cost for a higher number.

### Credentials

> There are two types of Azure credentials available: access keys and service principals. Access keys are simple to use but provide full access to the Storage and Batch accounts. Azure allows only two access keys per account, making them a single point of failure. A service principal provides an account which can be granted access to Azure Batch and Storage resources. Service principals therefore enable role-based access control with more precise permissions. Moreover, some Azure Batch features are only available when using a service principal.

Reviewer: I found this hard to follow - suggested change attached
```suggestion
There are two types of Azure credentials: access keys and service principals. Access keys are simple to use and provide full access to Azure Storage and Batch accounts. Azure allows only two access keys per account, making them a single point of failure. Service principals require more configuration as access to Azure Batch and Storage resources must be granted. Service principals therefore enable role-based access control with more precise permissions. Moreover, some Azure Batch features are only available when using a service principal.
```

Reviewer 2: Reformatting as ordered lists.

:::note

> The two Azure credential types use entirely different authentication methods. You can add more than one credential to a workspace, but Platform compute environments use only one credential at any given time. While separate credentials can be used by separate compute environments concurrently, they are not cross-compatible — access granted by one credential will not be shared with the other.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The two Azure credential types use different authentication methods. You can add more than one credential to a workspace, but Platform compute environments use only one credential at any given time. While separate credentials can be used by separate compute environments concurrently, they are not cross-compatible — access granted by one credential will not be shared with the other.
```

> Ensure you have sufficient permissions to create resource groups, an Azure Storage account, and a Batch account.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Ensure you have sufficient permissions to create resource groups, an Azure Storage account, and an Azure Batch account.
```

#### Resource groups

An Azure resource group is a logical container that holds related Azure resources such as virtual machines, storage accounts, databases, and more. A resource group serves as a management boundary to organize, deploy, monitor, and manage the resources within it as a single entity. Resources in a resource group share the same lifecycle, meaning they can be deployed, updated, and deleted together. This also enables easier access control, monitoring, and cost management, making resource groups a foundational element in organizing and managing cloud infrastructure in Azure.

#### Accounts

> Azure uses accounts for each service. For example, an [Azure Storage account][az-learn-storage] will house a collection of blob containers, file shares, queues, and tables. An Azure subscription can have multiple Azure Storage and Azure Batch accounts - however, a Platform compute environment can only use one of each. Multiple Platform compute environments can be set to use different credentials, Azure Storage accounts, and Azure Batch accounts.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Azure uses accounts for each service. For example, an [Azure Storage account][az-learn-storage] will house a collection of blob containers, file shares, queues, and tables. An Azure subscription can have multiple Azure Storage and Azure Batch accounts - however, a Platform compute environment can only use one of each. Multiple Platform compute environments can be created to use separate credentials, Azure Storage accounts, and Azure Batch accounts.
```

> Azure uses accounts for each service. For example, an [Azure Storage account][az-learn-storage] will house a collection of blob containers, file shares, queues, and tables. An Azure subscription can have multiple Azure Storage and Azure Batch accounts. However, a Platform compute environment can only use one of each (one Storage and one Batch account). Multiple Platform compute environments can be set to use different credentials, Storage accounts, and Batch accounts.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Azure uses accounts for each service. For example, an [Azure Storage account][az-learn-storage] will house a collection of blob containers, file shares, queues, and tables. An Azure subscription can have multiple Azure Storage and Azure Batch accounts - however, a Platform compute environment can only use one of each. Multiple Platform compute environments can be set to use different credentials, Azure Storage accounts, and Azure Batch accounts.
```

#### Service principals

> An Azure service principal is an identity created for use with applications, hosted services, or automated tools to access Azure resources. A service principal is effectively a user identity with a set of permissions assigned to it. Platform can use an Azure service principal to authenticate and authorize access to Azure Batch for job execution and Azure Storage for data management. By assigning the necessary roles to the service principal, Platform can securely interact with these Azure services. This ensures that only authorized operations are performed during pipeline execution.

Reviewer 4: It seems that Platform is assigning the roles to the service principal. "By assigning the necessary roles to the service principal, Platform can.." 
Can we make it more obvious that it's the user who has to set up the roles for the service princpal on their azure account?

## Create Azure resources

### Resource group

Create a resource group to link your Azure Batch and Azure Storage account:

:::note

> A resource group can be created while creating an Azure Storage Account or Azure Batch account.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A resource group can be created while creating an Azure Storage account or Azure Batch account.
```

:::

1. Log in to your Azure account, go to the [Create Resource group][az-create-rg] page, and select **Create new resource group**.
1. Enter a name for the resource group, such as _seqeracompute_.
1. Choose the preferred region.
1. Select **Review and Create** to proceed.
1. Select **Create**.

### Storage account

After creating a resource group, set up an [Azure Storage account][az-learn-storage]:

1. Log in to your Azure account, go to the [Create storage account][az-create-storage] page, and select **Create a storage account**.
    :::note
    If you haven't created a resource group, you can do so now.
    :::
1. Enter a name for the storage account, such as _seqeracomputestorage_.
1. Choose the preferred region. This must be the same region as the Batch account.

> 1. The platform supports any performance or redundancy settings — select the most appropriate settings for your use case.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Platform supports all performance or redundancy settings — select the most appropriate settings for your use case.
```

1. Select **Next: Advanced**.
1. Enable _storage account key access_.
1. Select **Next: Networking**.
   - Enable public access from all networks. You can enable public access from selected virtual networks and IP addresses, but you will be unable to use Forge to create compute resources. Disabling public access is not supported.
1. Select **Data protection**.
    - Configure appropriate settings. All settings are supported by the platform.
1. Select **Encryption**.
    - Only Microsoft-managed keys (MMK) are supported.
1. In **tags**, add any required tags for the storage account.
1. Select **Review and Create**.
1. Select **Create** to create the Azure Storage account.

>     - You will need at least one blob storage container to act as a working directory for Nextflow.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - You will need at least one Blob Storage container to act as a working directory for Nextflow.
```

> 1. Go to your new storage account and select **+ Container** to create a new Blob storage container. A new container dialogue will open. Enter a suitable name, e.g., _seqeracomputestorage-container_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Go to your new storage account and select **+ Container** to create a new Blob Storage container. A new container dialogue will open. Enter a suitable name, e.g., _seqeracomputestorage-container_.
```

> 1. Go to your new storage account and select **+ Container** to create a new Blob storage container. A new container dialogue will open. Enter a suitable name, e.g., _seqeracomputestorage-container_.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Go to your new Storage account and select **+ Container** to create a new Blob Storage container. A new container dialogue will open. Enter a suitable name, e.g., _seqeracomputestorage-container_.
```

1. Go to the **Access Keys** section of your new storage account (_seqeracomputestorage_ in this example).
1. Store the access keys for your Azure Storage account, to be used when you create a Seqera compute environment.

:::caution
Blob container storage credentials are associated with the Batch pool configuration. Avoid changing these credentials in your Seqera instance after you have created the compute environment.
:::

### Batch account

> After you have created a resource group and storage account, create a [Batch account][az-learn-batch]:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After you have created a resource group and Storage account, create a [Batch account][az-learn-batch]:
```

1. Log in to your Azure account and select **Create a batch account** on [this page][az-create-batch].
1. Select the existing resource group or create a new one.
1. Enter a name for the Batch account, such as _seqeracomputebatch_.
1. Choose the preferred region. This must be the same region as the Storage account.
1. Select **Advanced**.

> 1. For **Pool allocation mode**, select Batch service.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. For **Pool allocation mode**, select **Batch service**.
```

1. For **Authentication mode**, select _Shared Key_.
1. Select **Networking**. Ensure networking access is sufficient for Platform and any additional required resources.

> 1. In **tags**, if necessary, you can add any tags to the Batch account

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Add any **Tags** to the Batch account, if needed.
```

1. Select **Review and Create**.
1. Select **Create**.
1. Go to your new Batch account, then select **Access Keys**.
1. Store the access keys for your Azure Batch account, to be used when you create a Seqera compute environment.
    :::caution
    A newly-created Azure Batch account may not be entitled to create virtual machines without making a service request to Azure.
    See [Azure Batch service quotas and limits][az-batch-quotas] for more information.
    :::

> 1. Select the **+ Quotas** tab of the Azure Batch account to check and increase existing quotas if necessary.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Select the **+ Quotas** tab of the Azure Batch account to check and increase existing quotas if necessary.
```

    - **Spot/low-priority vCPUs**: Platform does not support spot or low-priority machines when using Forge, so when using Forge this number can be zero. When manually setting up a pool, select an appropriate number of concurrent vCPUs here.
    - **Total Dedicated vCPUs per VM series**: See the Azure documentation for [virtual machine sizes][az-vm-sizes] to help determine the machine size you need. We recommend the latest version of the ED series available in your region as a cost-effective and appropriately-sized machine for running Nextflow. However, you will need to select alternative machine series that have additional requirements, such as those with additional GPUs or faster storage. Increase the quota by the number of required concurrent CPUs. In Azure, machines are charged per cpu minute so there is no additional cost for a higher number.

### Credentials

There are two types of Azure credentials available: access keys and Entra service principals.

Access keys are simple to use but have several limitations:
- Access keys are long-lived. 

> - Access keys provide full access to the Storage and Batch accounts. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Access keys provide full access to the Azure Storage and Azure Batch accounts. 
```

- Azure allows only two access keys per account, making them a single point of failure. 

> Entra service principals are accounts which can be granted access to Azure Batch and Storage resources: 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Entra service principals are accounts which can be granted access to Azure Batch and Azure Storage resources: 
```

- Service principals enable role-based access control with more precise permissions. 

> - Service principals map to a many-to-many relationship with Batch and Storage accounts.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Service principals map to a many-to-many relationship with Azure Batch and Azure Storage accounts.
```

    If you haven't created a resource group, you can do so now.
    :::

> 1. Enter a name for the storage account (e.g., _towerrgstorage_).

Reviewer 2: This is intentional.

1. Select **Data protection**.
    - Configure appropriate settings. All settings are supported by the platform.
1. Select **Encryption**.
    - Only Microsoft-managed keys (MMK) are supported.
1. In **tags**, add any required tags for the storage account.
1. Select **Review and Create**.
1. Select **Create** to create the Azure Storage account.
1. You will need at least one blob storage container to act as a working directory for Nextflow.
1. Go to your new storage account and select **+ Container** to create a new Blob storage container. A new container dialogue will open. Enter a suitable name, e.g., _towerrgstorage-container_.
1. Go to the **Access Keys** section of your new storage account (_towerrgstorage_ in this example).
1. Store the access keys for your Azure Storage account, to be used when you create a Seqera compute environment.

:::caution
Blob container storage credentials are associated with the Batch pool configuration. Avoid changing these credentials in your Seqera instance after you have created the compute environment.
:::

> ### Batch account

Reviewer 4: both this header and the next "Create a batch account" are at the same level. Is it on purpose? 
Or should the second header be removed?

After you have created a resource group and storage account, create a [Batch account][az-learn-batch].

### Create a Batch account

1. Log in to your Azure account and select **Create a batch account** on [this page][az-create-batch].

> 1. Select the existing resource group or create a new one.

Reviewer 4: all points are "1."  Is it ok?

    - **Spot/low-priority vCPUs**: Platform does not support spot or low-priority machines when using Forge, so when using Forge this number can be zero. When manually setting up a pool, select an appropriate number of concurrent vCPUs here.
    - **Total Dedicated vCPUs per VM series**: See the Azure documentation for [virtual machine sizes][az-vm-sizes] to help determine the machine size you need. We recommend the latest version of the ED series available in your region as a cost-effective and appropriately-sized machine for running Nextflow. However, you will need to select alternative machine series that have additional requirements, such as those with additional GPUs or faster storage. Increase the quota by the number of required concurrent CPUs. In Azure, machines are charged per cpu minute so there is no additional cost for a higher number.

### Credentials

> There are two Azure credential options available: primary Access Keys and a Service Principal. Primary Access Keys are simple to use but provide full access to the storage and batch accounts. Additionally, there can only be two keys per account, making them a single point of failure. A Service Principal, on the other hand, provides an account that can be granted access to Azure Batch and Storage resources, allowing for role-based access control with more precise permissions. Moreover, some Azure Batch features are only available when using a Service Principal instead of primary Access Keys.

Reviewer 4: Is this still true? There is only one Azure creds type, that can be specified further into batch and service principal. This paragraph may need to be rewritten

:::note
The two Azure credential types use entirely different authentication methods. You can add more than one credential to a workspace, but only one can be used at a time. While they can be used concurrently, they are not cross-compatible, and access granted by one will not be shared with the other.
:::

#### Access Keys

1. Navigate to the Azure Portal and sign in.
1. Locate the Azure Batch account and select "Keys" under "Account management." Here, you will see the Primary and Secondary keys. Copy one of the keys and save it in a secure location for later use.
1. Locate the Azure Storage account and, under the "Security and Networking" section, select "Access keys". Here, you will see Key1 and Key2 options. Copy one of them and save it in a secure location for later use. Be sure to delete them after saving them in Seqera Platform.

> 1. In Seqera Platform, go to your workspace, select "Add a new credential," and choose the "Azure Credentials" type.

Reviewer 4: This step definitely changed now in the platform

1. Choose the roles "Storage Blob Data Reader" and "Storage Blob Data Contributor", then select "Members", click "Select Members", search for your newly created Service Principal, and assign the role.
1. Repeat the same process for the Azure Batch account, but use the "Azure Batch Contributor" role.
1. Seqera Platform will need credentials to authenticate as the Service Principal. Navigate back to the app registration, and on the "Overview" page, save the "Application (client) ID" value for use in Seqera Platform.
1. Then, click "Certificates & secrets" and select "New client secret." A new secret will be created containing a value and secret ID. Save both of these securely for use in Seqera Platform. Be sure to delete them after saving them in Seqera Platform.
1. In Seqera Platform, go to your workspace, select "Add a new credential," choose the "Azure Credentials" type, then select the "Service Principal" tab.
1. Enter a name for the credentials, such as _Azure Credentials_.
1. Add the Application ID, Secret ID, Secret, **Batch account**, and **Blob Storage** account names to the relevant fields.

## Seqera Platform

> There are two ways to create an Azure Batch compute environment in Seqera Platform:

Reviewer 4: Is this true? where are the two ways detailed?  
this is only true for one subtype of azure credentials. Service principals can only be used with manual CEs at the moment.

Reviewer 2: Clarified.

Create a Batch Forge Azure Batch compute environment:

1. In a workspace, select **Compute Environments > New Environment**.
1. Enter a descriptive name, such as _Azure Batch (east-us)_.
1. Select **Azure Batch** as the target platform.
1. Choose existing Azure credentials or add a new credential.
    :::info
    Batch Forge compute environments must use access keys for authentication. Entra service principals are only supported in manual compute environments. 
    :::
1. Add the **Batch account** and **Blob Storage** account names and access keys.
1. Select a **Region**, such as _eastus_.

> 1. In the **Pipeline work directory** field, enter the Azure blob container created previously. For example, `az://towerrgstorage-container/work`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In the **Pipeline work directory** field, enter the Azure blob container created previously. For example, `az://seqeracomputestorage-container/work`.
```

> When you use a manually configured compute environment with a managed identity attached to the Azure Batch Pool, Nextflow can use this managed identity for authentication. However, Platform still needs to use access keys to submit the initial task to Azure Batch to run Nextflow, which will then proceed with the managed identity for subsequent authentication.

Reviewer 4: is "managed identity" clear here? I don't see the term referenced before in this doc

Your Seqera compute environment uses resources that you may be charged for in your Azure account. See [Cloud costs](../monitoring/cloud-costs.mdx) for guidelines to manage cloud resources effectively and prevent unexpected costs.
:::

Create a manual Seqera Azure Batch compute environment:

1. In a workspace, select **Compute Environments > New Environment**.
1. Enter a descriptive name for this environment, such as _Azure Batch (east-us)_.
1. For **Provider**, select **Azure Batch**.
1. Select your existing Azure credentials (access keys or Entra service principal) or select **+** to add new credentials.
    :::note
    To authenticate using an Entra service principal, you must include a user-assigned managed identity. See [Managed identity](#managed-identity) below. 
    :::
1. Select a **Region**, such as _eastus (East US)_.

> 1. In the **Pipeline work directory** field, add the Azure blob container created previously. For example, `az://towerrgstorage-container/work`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In the **Pipeline work directory** field, add the Azure blob container created previously. For example, `az://seqeracomputestorage-container/work`.
```

When you use a manually configured compute environment with a managed identity attached to the Azure Batch Pool, Nextflow can use this managed identity for authentication. However, Platform still needs to use access keys to submit the initial task to Azure Batch to run Nextflow, which will then proceed with the managed identity for subsequent authentication.

1. In Azure, create a user-assigned managed identity. See [Manage user-assigned managed identities](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/entra/identity/managed-identities-azure-resources/how-manage-user-assigned-managed-identities) for detailed steps. After creation, record the Client ID of the managed identity.
1. The user-assigned managed identity must have the necessary access roles for Nextflow. See [Required role assignments](https://www.nextflow.io/docs/latest/azure.html#required-role-assignments) for more information.
1. Associate the user-assigned managed identity with the Azure Batch Pool. See [Set up managed identity in your batch pool](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/troubleshoot/azure/hpc/batch/use-managed-identities-azure-batch-account-pool#set-up-managed-identity-in-your-batch-pool) for more information.

> 1. When you set up the Platform compute environment, select the Azure Batch pool by name and enter the managed identity client ID in the specified field as instructed above.

Reviewer: Could this be made into a guide? IMO - It's half way between a guide and reference content and is hard to follow.

    </details>

> >>>>>>> master

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```
